---
title: Money
date: 2024-05-07 15:31:00 Z
---


\
I love listening to people tell stories, I am able to go on a journey with them I have not lived before, to hear, see or feel something I have not felt  before. And in my opinion, Nigerians are one of the best story tellers ever, hands down at least orally, at least the older generation. The art of telling a atory without gaps, without a like, well, with suspens, with oranization. To keep me wondering, sometimes I visit someone and abosulutely remember to ask them for the rest of the story the next time I go. 
\

\
I have heard a lot of stories but this one my uncle told me really stuck to me. 
\

\
MJ: " Why did you marry Uncle Seyi"
\
Aunty Temi: "He was a nice man"
\

\
Uncle Seyi - (snickers)Me, I am very nice, 
\
MJ: Me smiling at the cuteness
\
Uncle Seyi - So we wanted to get married and she was working in her job in the bank, me too I was working as a director of FCMB. I was living in one room. That was how your aunty came up to me and said I have saved about 300,000 naira we can easily use some for the wedding and save for a house or something. I laughed what did she think. I ended up being established in the banking industry. But if that had not happened, I was ready me and my wife to go and open a cement store.
\

\
MJ: A cement store? 
\

\
Uncle Seyi - Yes a cement store, all those iya bosun, iya tayo, that used to sit in front of cocacola containers moving trucks of cement everyday. Do you know how much they make? I would have jejely - meaning gently -started my own cement business, its not that hard.
\

\
We ended up talking for a while and my uncle now is huge, has been the big person over east African operations of a bank, huge in Nigeria as well. Has well made his money. So he didn't need to open a cement store anymore. 
\

\
But they story stayed with me and I realized why, everyday as people we look for ways to make money, especially as a young person in society. We know education guarentees some basic level of security, you go to school you can get a job. But sometimes how do you know that it is selling cement that would make you money and here I summarize two conclusions/things/crucial points to accumulating wealth I learnt/ learnt from this story:
\

\
 But then everybody wants to blow, even my brother who barely talks about things like that suddenly wants to blow. 
\

\
You are not sure what you want to do, how do you achieve it in life, make money..i guess, do what you are supposed to do. Well
\

\
Exposure: Sometimes, we need exposure to know how we can make money. I would never have thought about selling cement in my life, but if I ever find myself in Nigeria and need to make soome money, best believe I would go check out about opening a cement store. But it does not stop there, my mind is now open to all the ways of accumulating wealth, Nigeria has almost 200 million people, at least most people I know are trying to build houses at any given time, I am sure there are other materials I could sell to them, how about shoes, clothes etc.
\
Hang out around the rich people you know and actively ask them about their business stories.
\

\
Capital: My uncle talked about trucks of cement, about taking the money he and his wife had saved to open a cement store. To do a business like that without cutting corners has to be done in scale, massive scale. Meaning you have to have the initial capital to start. Ideas are good, but the plain truth that dawned on me id if I ever had a great idea I belived would make me money, I better have the capital and enough of it without frustrating myself or it might die in its tracks. 
\

\
I am going to have to start saving money to use as an entrepreneur once the time comes, sometimes you dont know what business you are going to do. but when you need to save for when you know.
\

\
even if you do have to raise money you have to prove that you can handle money on a large scale already, which you experiment with your money.
\
Final thoughts: 
\

\
1\. save, save, save....you never know when that idea might hit you be rrady
\
2\. Use what you have, That problem you complained of today - ask yourself, can i solve it,  - are there people who have this same problem - will they pay me to solve it for them. 
\
3\. Use what you have, talk to business people you already know. When you start doing business you will meet even more people, keep your ears on the ground.
\
cest finite